Explore multiple projects (#9238)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/explore/explore-multiple-projects.md

<ExplorerCourse />

The resource-level lineage graph for a project displays cross-project relationships in the DAG. Nodes that represent another dbt project show a project icon to the left of the project name.

From a project's overview page, click **View lineage** in the upper right corner to open that project's resource-level lineage graph. In that graph:

> - Viewing an upstream (parent) project displays the downstream (child) projects that depend on it.

Reviewer: I think we need to alter these lines slightly to flow with the change on 17

"In that graph: View an upstream... Select a model...  

Click on an upstream... is ok as is

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/dbt-explorer/cross-project-child.png" width="100%" height="100" title="View a downstream (child) project that imports and refs public models from the upstream (parent) project."/>

> ## Explore the project-level lineage graphs

Author: ```suggestion
## Explore the project-level lineage graph
```

## Explore the project-level lineage graph

For cross-project collaboration, you can interact with the DAG in all the same ways as described in [Explore your project's lineage](/docs/explore/explore-projects#project-lineage). You can also interact with it at the project level and view the details.

If you have permissions for a project in the account, you can view all public models used across the entire account. However, you can only view full public model details and private models if you have permissions for the specific project where those models are defined.

### View account-level lineage

To view all projects in your account as a lineage graph or list:

> 1. In **<Constant name="catalog" />**, open the **Catalog** page.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In **<Constant name="catalog" />**, select your project from the sidebar.
```

If you have permissions for a project in the account, you can view all public models used across the entire account. However, you can only view full public model details and private models if you have permissions for the specific project where those models are defined.

To view all the projects in your account (displayed as a lineage graph or list view):

- Navigate to the left section of the **Catalog** page, near the navigation.
- Hover over the project name and select the account name. This takes you to an account-level lineage graph page, where you can view all the projects in the account, including dependencies and relationships between different projects.
- Click the **List view** icon in the page's upper right corner to see a list view of all the projects in the account.
- The list view page displays a public model list, project list, and a search bar for project searches.
- Click the **Lineage view** icon in the page's upper right corner to view the account-level lineage graph.

### View account-level lineage

> 1. In **<Constant name="catalog" />**, open the Catalog page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **<Constant name="catalog" />**, open the **Catalog** page.
```

2. Click **Account lineage** in the upper right corner.

> 3. On the account-level lineage graph, each project appears as its own node with the project name and a count of public models it exposes. Arrows between nodes show how projects depend on one another. The top toolbar includes a search bar and **List view** and lineage view toggles. Zoom controls appear in the lower right corner.

Reviewer: This doesn't feel like a step number to me but feel free to leave it as one if you disagree. 

```suggestion
On the account-level lineage graph, each project appears as its own node with the project name and a count of public models it exposes. Arrows between nodes show how projects depend on one another. The top toolbar includes a search bar and **List view** and lineage view toggles. Zoom controls appear in the lower right corner.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/dbt-explorer/account-level-lineage.gif" width="100%" title="Account-level lineage graph showing cross-project dependencies between projects."/>

From the account-level lineage graph, you can also:

- Click **List view** to switch to a table of projects and public models.
- Double-click a project node to open that project's resource-level lineage graph.

### Explore a project's resource-level lineage

> From a project's **Overview** page, **View lineage** opens the resource-level lineage graph for that project. In this view, you can see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a project's **Overview** page, click **View lineage** to open the resource-level lineage graph for that project. In this view, you can see:
```

- Sources, seeds, and models in the current project, with connectors between them.
- Downstream projects that reference the project's public models, shown as separate project nodes connected by dashed lines.
- A search bar, **Lenses**, a **Resource type** filter, a resource-type legend, and zoom controls.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/dbt-explorer/multi-project-overview.gif" width="95%" title="Resource-level lineage graph with a selected model and the Relationships tab."/>

When you select a model, a details panel opens on the right. In this panel, you can see:

> - On the **General** tab: the model description and metadata fields such as **Project** and **Relation**.

Reviewer: Similar to above, I think we need to either change the language here or alter "In this panel, you can see:" on line 74 so if flows more naturally when you read it
